yoshimitsu ashikaga was the 3rd seii taishogun of the muromachi shogunate and reigned from 1368 to1394 .
official rank : juichii daijodaijin ( chancellor of the realm ) and zoshoichii
title of nobility : monarch of japan
childhood name : haruo
his farther was the 2nd shogun , yoshiakira ashikaga , and his mother was ki no yoshiko .
his wife was nariko hino , a daughter of the dainagon ( great councilor ) tokimitsu hino , and she became his wife thanks to the arrangement and support of a beloved princess of the emperor go-kogon , senshi hino .
after that , yasuko hino ( later kitayamain ) , her niece , became his wife after the death of nariko .
his concubines were fujiwara no keishi ( yoshiko ) - mother of yoshimochi ashikaga and yoshinori ashikaga - and kasuga no tsubone ( a concubine of yoshimitsu ashikaga ) - mother of yoshitsugu ashikaga - among others .
yoshimitsu was also called " muromachi-dono " ( lord muromachi ) , because he moved the imperial palace to kitakoji muromachi .
later , " muromachi-dono " became the designation for the ashikaga shogun , and his government office-cum-residence was called " muromachi bakufu , " which has been used ever since as a historical term to indicate muromachi shogunate .
he was born in 1358 .
it fell precisely on the 100th day after the death of takauji ashikaga .
when yoshimitsu was young , there were constant struggles between the muromachi shogunate and the yoshino imperial court , and moreover , since the kanno disturbance , an internal conflict of the ashikaga family , had occurred , the strife between the shogunate and the court intensified .
kiyouji hosokawa and other potential military commanders supported the southern imperial court , and in 1361 , when kiyouji and masanori kusunoki of the southern imperial court occupied kyoto , yoshimitsu was obliged to escape to the shirahata castle in harima province .
the following year , he returned to kyoto as the alliance of the shogunate and northern court recaptured the capital . on the way back to kyoto , when he spent a night in settsu province , he liked the scenery and said to the vassals , " there is very fine scenery here , let 's carry it back to kyoto .
" you should carry it on your shoulders , " and the vassals , listening to him , were said to be very surprised at his grandiose thinking .
after his farther yoshiakira died from an illness in 1367 , yoshimitsu became the 3rd shogun at the age of 11 .
in 1368 the hyojohajime was celebrated , and in 1369 he was installed as shogun .
while the administration of the shogunate was led by shugo daimyos of the ashikaga clan , including yoriyuki hosokawa , who were in charge of kanrei , he studied imperial governance .
yoriyuki implemented oan no taiho , a land expropriation law , to consolidate land management , and developed the five mountain system in kyoto and kamakura to strengthen control over religion .
he also dispatched sadayo ( ryoshun ) imagawa and yoshihiro ouchi to kyushu , where the southern court dominated , to debilitate its influence and consolidate the power of the shogunate .
in 1374 , he welcomed yoriko hino as his wife .
in 1370 , in order to strengthen control over kyoto , the court gave him authority to control the sanmon kunin ( a clique of influential people of enryaku-ji temple and its affiliates , as well as member of the temple )
in 1378 , the shogunate was moved from sanjo bomon to kitanokoji muromachi .
the shogunate , after the move , was nicknamed " hana no gosho " ( flower palace ) , and also called the muromachi bakufu ( shogunate ) after its new location .
the administration and taxation authorities , which had been divided between the court and the shogunate , were integrated and a unit called hokoshu or bugyoshu was organized to handle practical matters , and was a standing army comparable to the shugo daimyo 's army in military strength .
he also undertook the following actions to demonstrate his power : visit to todai-ji temple and kofuku-ji temple in 1385 , sight-seeing trip to mt . fuji in suruga province in 1388 , visit to itsukushima shrine in aki province in 1389 .
in 1379 , yoshimitsu 's residence was surrounded by the anti-yoriyuki shugo daimyos such as yoshiyuki ( yoshimasa ) shiba and yoriaki toki , who requested that he dismiss yoriyuki , and consequently yoriyuki was dismissed ( koryaku political change ) .
yoshimasa succeeded to the post of kanrei and personnel matters were taken over by the shiba clique .
the shogunate issued an order to hunt and kill yoriyuki , but the following year pardoned him and after that he was included again in the administration with the post of shukuro , and during this period yoshimitsu was able to establish his power as shogun ; and based on these facts we can assume that he might have intended to make use of the rivalry between the two factions , shiba and hosokawa , to get them to contain each other .
after the death of yoriyasu , he subdued the toki clan , taking advantage of the internal conflict while the toki were fighting on two sides .
in 1391 , he intervened in the internal conflict of the yamashinas and provoked ujikiyo yamana , a powerful shugo daimyo dominating 11 provinces at that time who was called " rokubun no ichi dono " ( lord of one-sixth of the whole country ) to raise an army to subdue the yamanas .
yoshimitsu was again promoted and took the position of naidaijin ( minister of internal affairs ) and sadaijinn ( minister of the left ) , the higher official rankings that his grandfather and his father were not able to achieve .
in 1383 he was the first samurai to become genjichoja ( head of the genjis ) , and served concurrently as betto ( supreme officer ) of the junan-in and the shogaku-in , and later he was granted a title " jusango , " and reached the height of power of the samurai as well as the aristocrats .
in 1392 , yoshimitsu accelerated negotiations with the southern court with a help of yoshihiro ouchi as an intermediary , as the national influence of the southern court was declining . in the negotiations , he presented several following proposals for reconciliation : the emperor should be selected alternately from the two imperial lineages , jimyoin-to and daikakuji-to ; all the state-owned territories ( of which there was actually very little ) should belong to the daikakuji-to ; the three sacred treasures which were in the possession of emperor go-kameyama should be presented to emperor go-komatsu of the jimyoin-to , so that the southern court would be dissolved . in this way , he achieved integration of the northern and southern courts , and put a stop to the 58 year split between the courts .
after emperor go-enyu , who opposed yoshimitsu and abdicated to emperor go-komatsu , died in 1393 , yoshimitsu established his power , and in 1394 , he handed over the post of shogun to his son , yoshimochi ashikaga , and retired , but he continued to hold the real power .
the same year , he finally rose to the post of juichii daijodaijin ( chancellor of the realm ) .
the following year , he became a priest with a pseudonym , dogi .
it is thought that he became a priest in order to gain the ability to control temples and shrines , the remaining sphere he wanted to conquer after reaching the peak of the aristocratic spheres as seii taishogun , taisei daijin and junsangu .
following yoshimitsu 's act , many samurai and aristocrats also became priests .
in 1395 , sadayo imagawa , who held independent authority as kyushu tandai , was dismissed .
in 1399 , he provoked a powerful daimyo in the western region , yoshihiro ouchi , and using the excuse that yoshihiro was taking up arms , he subdued yoshihiro ( war of oei ) , and in this way the influential factions that might oppose yoshimitsu in the western region were eliminated .
yoshimitsu , since his younger days , had deeply admired ming , wishing to establish trade between japan and ming . however , the government of ming recognized prince kanenaga sole counterpart for negotiations , therefore , yoshimitsu 's wish was not fulfilled .
after the integration of the northern and southern courts , he again intended to negotiate with ming , under the nominal title of " seii shogun of japan , yoshimitsu minamoto , " but the government of ming would not accept an envoy dispatched by someone who presented himself as a vassal of the emperor , because ming traditionally did not trade with any retainer of a vassal .
then , yoshimitsu became a priest , and then sent a merchant called koitsumi from hakata city and the priest soa as missionaries to ming in 1401 , with the aristocratic title of " junsangu of japan , michiyoshi minamoto , " instead of using the higher ( but samurai ) title of " taisei shogun . "
finally emperor jianwen of ming offered a master-and-man relationship ( sakuho ) to the japanese sovereign instead of to prince kanenaga , with whom ming had wanted to have contact until then , and when ming gave the datongli calendar to japan , the two countries ' diplomatic relations were formally established .
in 1404 , he started japan-ming trade that took the form of tribute to the ming emperor . he also was able to suppress japanese pirates ( however , before the ming 's government could dispatch an envoy to convey the emperor 's gratitude to the japanese government , the seinan war broke out in ming , emperor jianwen abdicated , and emperor yongle took the throne ) .
after the abolition of the embassies to china , in the japanese aristocratic society , in which an isolation policy was practiced based on a petit sino centrism , there were accumulated discontent with and criticism of the tribute trade because japan was treated as vassal to the emperors of ming ; but , as the aristocrats were not able to speak out publicly in the face of the yoshimitsu 's strong influence , they could do nothing but comment on their dissatisfaction in diaries or other documents .
yoshimitsu , who adored ming culture , pressed the imperial court to use the chinese character 洪 in the name of japanese eras after the taizu of ming , emperor hongwu ( 洪武帝 ) , but this was rejected by for various reasons , including the facts mentioned above .
yoshimitsu felt offended , and after that , he was never allowed to change the name of the era during his reign , and that is why the oei was the longest era before meiji .
in 1397 , he received hokusantei in kitayama , kyoto , from kintsune saionji , and constructed a mountain villa called kitayamatei or kitayamadono ( later rokuon-ji temple ) , placing a reliquary in the center .
the culture of this period is called the kitayama culture , where the samurai style , aristocratic style and the tang style ( zen buddhism style ) were merged .
in 1408 , he died of a sudden illness in his 51st calendar year ( 49 years old ) .
buddhist name : rokuonin tenzan dogi .
after the death of yoshimitsu , the title " rokuonin daijohoo ( cloistered emperor ) " was granted from the imperial court , but his son yoshimochi , who became the fourth shogun , declined the offer partly because yoshiyuki ( yoshimasa ) shiba and others opposed accepting the title ( on the other hand , his family temple , shokoku-ji temple seems to have accepted the title and therefore , yoshimitsu 's name is registered as " rokuonin daijo tenno " in the temple 's death register ) .
it is said that during his life yoshimitsu did not get along well with his son yoshimochi , and the policies that yoshimitsu introduced , such as the imperial court policy , control of the aristocracy and shugo daimyo , and foreign policy including trade with ming , were denounced by yshimochi .
the hokusantei , a heritage left by yoshimitsu , was also destroyed by yoshimochi , except for the kinkaku .
in his life , yoshimitsu was extremely partial to yoshitsugu ashikaga , his second son , and when yoshitsugu absconded , yoshimochi accused him of treason and killed him .
afterwards , the descendants of yoshitsugu fled to echizen , and they were called " kuradanigosho . "
yoshimitsu 's son , yoshinori ashikaga , intended to continue yoshimitsu 's policies when he became the 6th shogun , but he was assassinated by mitsusuke akamatsu during the kakitsu war .
yoshimitsu 's grandson , yoshimasa ashikaga who became the 8th shogun , also tried to follow his grandfather and father 's policies , but as he became disgusted with the onin war and the puppet administration controlled by his vassals , he lost enthusiasm for political management .
the shugo daimyos , who had served submissively during yoshimitsu 's reign , began to take a defiant attitude toward the government again .
yoshinari tanaka , akira imatani , and others propose a theory that yoshimitsu had an intention to usurp the imperial throne ; and based on this theory , some novelists including chogoro kaionji and motohiko izawa present their opinion that yoshimitsu 's sudden death might confirm that he was assassinated to interrupt his plot .
yoshimitsu , from his younger days , was accustomed to using wither of two stylized signatures according to the situation , one for samurai affairs and the other for aristocratic affairs . he also made his second wife , yasuko , become the emperor go-komatsu 's junbo ( mother next to the empress , treated as his mother ) , then made her a nyoin ( wife of a former emperor or princess who received the same treatment as emperors ) . he also forced the nobles to offer their wives to him .
he also usurped various authorities , such as those for rituals and for personnel affairs , from the imperial family . in april 1408 , one month before his death , he carried out the ceremony of genpuku ( coming-of-age ceremony for boys ) for his second son , yoshitsugu , on a scale comparable to ceremonies for an imperial prince .
it is thought that all of this was done by yoshimitsu with the intention of usurping the throne , and becoming ming 's hosaku is also supposed to have been planned as a part of his plot , in order to make use of external pressure on the imperial court .
those who support the assassination theory suspect that yoshimitsu was poisoned by the imperial court , who wanted to prevent his usurpation ( izawa deduces in his novel that the assassin was zeami ) .
there is another theory in which yoshimochi 's side was worried about the future succession due to yoshimitsu 's excessive partiality to yoshitsugu .
however , there were no descriptions in any documents of that period , such as nobles ' diaries , indicating suspicion that the actions taken by yoshimitsu had been a part of his plot or that he was assassinated , and therefore , they cannot offer any direct evidence either .
by the way , usurpation here does not mean that yoshimitsu himself wanted to take to the throne , but he wanted to take authority from the emperors by acquiring power as a sort of retired sovereign , and intended to hold real power even after his retirement .
he tried to make his second son , yoshitsugu , accede to the throne , while he himself , being his father , intended to be a retired sovereign .
imatani supposes that yoshimitsu was strongly influenced by china ( ming ) , but he did not subscribe to idea that incumbent emperors could be overthrown by decree of heaven , instead making use of " yamataishi , " a popular prophecy of the time .
this verse is known as a prophecy , where it is predicted that the imperial reign would count 100 emperors , and according today 's study , the emperor go-komatsu is considered to be the 100th emperor .
however , because the reigns of the kobun , junnin , and chukyo were not recognized at the time , and the muromachi shogunate naturally saw the northern court as legitimate , emperor go-komatsu was considered to be the 99th .
but , if the temporary unification of emperor go-murakami in the shohei unification during the civil war of kanno is counted , then emperor go-komatsu is the 100th emperor .
thus , it could be interpreted to mean that japan would be ruined after a monkey or dog had been called a hero .
the idea that the imperial reign terminates with the 100th emperor is documented in gukansho by jien and other writings , and is supposed to have been widely accepted .
ujimitsu ashikaga , the kamakura kubo , was born in the year of the monkey , according to the chinese zodiac ( nowadays , he is considered to have been born in the year of boar ) , while yoshimitsu was born in the year of dog ; therefore , there was an interpretation that the monkey and the dog represent these two people .
on the other hand , izawa supposes that the author might have gotten the hint from the tale of genji .
* ( ) : lunar calendar
january 7 , 1367 - conferred jugoi no ge .
december 24 - promoted to shogoi no jo .
december 28 , 1368 - appointed samanokami .
may 2 , 1398 - held his coming-of-age ceremony , and took the name yoshimitsu .
january 28 , 1369 - declared seii taishogun .
january 7 , 1374 - promoted to jushii no ge and given secondary post of sangi .
he also took charge of sakone no chusho .
december 13 , 1375 - promoted to jusanmi .
retained the post of sangi sakone no chusho
april 21 , 1378 - post changed to gon dainagon
september 19 - also took on post of ukonoe no daisho
january 2 , 1379 - promoted to junii
retained the post of ukonoe no daisho
february 4 - also took on post of umeryo gogen
february 11 , 1380 - promoted to juichii .
retained the post of ukonoe no daisho
august 13 , 1381 - post changed to naidaijin
retained the post of ukonoe no daisho
february 9 , 1382 - post changed to sadaijin
retained the post of ukonoe no daisho
march 4 - also took on the post of kurodo no betto
may 11 - got a permission to use an oxcart .
may 25 - also took on the post of go-enyuin betto
february 16 , 1383 - also took on the post of genji chojain and junwa shogakuin betto .
july 26 - promoted to jusangu
april 8 , 1384 - resigned as ukonoe no daisho
june 30 , 1388 - resigned as minister of the left
february 7 - returned to the post of minister of the left
october 22 , 1393 - resigned as minister of the left
january 8 , 1395 - resigned as seii taishogun .
january 16 - post changed to daijodaijin ( chancellor of the realm )
june 20 - resigned as daijodaijin ( chancellor of the realm )
july 7 - became a priest ( by the name of doyu , later changed to dogi )
august 20 , 1404 - ming designated him as the sovereign of japan .
may 31 , 1408 - passed away
june 3 - the honorary title " daijo-tenno " ( cloistered emperor ) was granted ( although the shogunate declined it )
father : yoshiakira ashikaga ( the 2nd shogun )
mother : ki no yoshiko ( concubine )
brothers and sisters
chizuomaru
seiso hakutei
mitsuakira ashikaga
soki teiyo
female ( hokyojidono .
( keisho ? )
wife : nariko hino ( daughter of tokimitsu hino )
female
wife : yasuko hino ( daughter of sukeyasu hino )
concubine : fujiwara no keishi / yoshiko ( daughter of aki no hogen )
yoshimochi ashikaga ( the 4th shogun )
yoshimasa ashikaga ( the 6th shogun )
female ( irie-dono seisen )
concubine : kaga no tsubone ( daughter of chokai hoin )
sonman ( yuzan seishi )
male ( hodo jakuko )
concubine : kasuga no tsubone ( daughter of yoshihide settsu )
yoshitsugu ashikaga
concubine : neifukuin-dono
female ( daijiin shokyu )
concubine : fujiwara no kazuko
concubine : fjiwara no seiko
gijo kajii
concubine : keiun anshu ( daughter of fuyumune oinomikado )
female ( koshoin sonkyu )
concubine : takahashi-dono
concubine ( ikejiri-dono )
female
kozan eiryu
( the following are children whose mothers are unknown )
ninna-ji hoson
daikaku-ji gisho
honkaku-in manshu
female ( hokke-ji sonjun )
female ( wife of rokkaku mitsutsuna )
female ( chief priestess of settsu-in )
female ( chief priestess of hokyo-ji temple )
mitsuie kujo
mitsumoto nijo
mitsukane ashikaga
mitsusuke akamatsu
mitsunori isshiki
mitsutane shiba
mitsusada shoni
mitsuie hatakeyama
mitsumoto hosokawa
mitsuyuki hosokawa
mitsutsuna rokkaku
mitsutaka rokkaku
usui , nobuyoshi . ( 1989 ) . ashikaga yoshimitsu . yoshikawa kobunkan people series . yoshikawa kobunkan . isbn 4642051503 .
imatani , akira . ( 1990 ) . muromachi no oken : ashikaga yoshimitsu no oken sandatsu . chuko shinsho . isbn 4121009789 .
sato , shinichi . ( 1994 ) . ashikaga yoshimitsu : chusei oken e no chosen . heibonsha library . isbn 4582760627 .
izawa , motohiko . ( 1998 ) . a shogun who wanted to be an emperor : taiheiki thereafter - the mystery of yoshimitsu ashikaga . shogakkan bunko . isbn 4094023011 .
izawa , motohiko . ( 2003 ) . paradoxical japanese history ( 7 ) king 's power in the middle ages - the mystery of taiheiki and the southern and northern courts . shogakkan bunko . isbn 4094020071 .
kitakata , kenzo . ( 1991 ) . the flag of heat haze . shinchosha
abe , ryutaro . ( 1995 ) . " basara shogun . " muromachikaden . bungei shunju / basara shogun . bunshun bunko .
hiraiwa , yumiko . ( 2000 ) . throne of lion - biography of yoshimitsu ashikaga . chuokoron shinsha .
sakaguchi , hisashi . ( 1993-1996 ) . akkanbe ikkyu . kodansha .
tv animation program . ( broadcast 1975-1982 ) . ikkyu-san ( toei doga ) , wherein yoshimitsu appears as shogun . voice actor : keaton yamada .
refer to ikkyu sojun
