emperor uda ( june 14 , 867 - september 8 , 931 ) , the fifty-ninth japanese emperor , was in power from december 9 , 887 to august 8 , 897 .
the last name is sadami .
emperor uda was the seventh prince of emperor koko .
his mother was empress dowager hanshi-joo , who was the daughter of emperor kammu 's son , imperial prince nakano .
although he once left the imperial family and was granted the surname of genji and called minamoto no sadami , he returned to the imperial family on august 29 , 887 with the help of kampaku , chief adviser to the emperor , fujiwara no mototsune , and became a prince on august 30 , 888 .
this is strongly related to the fact that emperor uda was the adopted son of naishi no tsukasa fujiwara no yoshiko , who was mototsune 's half-sister .
he became emperor on november 21 , the day emperor koko passed away due to ill health .
the first child , imperial prince atsugimi ( later called emperor daigo ) , was the son of nyogo ( empress dowager zo ) , fujiwara no inshi ( taneko ) .
fujiwara no inshi was one of the wives of emperor uda when he was young , and was a daughter of naidaijin fujiwara no takafuji .
the nyogo were fujiwara no inshi , fujiwara no onshi ( yoshiko ) , tachibana no gishi ( noriko ) , sugawara no enshi ( hiroko ) and tachibana no boshi ( fusako ) .
fujiwara no onshi ( yoshiko ) was mototsune 's daughter and became one of the emperor uda 's wives after his enthronement .
after nyogo fujiwara no inshi died of illness , imperial prince atsugimi was adopted and she became the prince 's wife when emperor daigo was enthroned .
because she lived in higashi-shichijo-no-miya during the last part of her life , she was also called higashi-shichijo-ko or shichijo-ko .
shinjaku-hosshinno was the son of tachibana no gishi ( noriko ) , whose wife was the daughter of sugawara no michizane ; the name became apparent years later , when sugawara no michizane had a false charge brought against him .
sugawara no enshi ( hiroko ) was a daughter of sugawara no michizane .
there are many princes and princesses .
most of emperor uda 's grandchildren were granted the surname genji and left the imperial family .
the genji clan , which originated from the emperor uda family , is called uda-genji ; those who came from the genji group of fujiwara no inshi 's daughter , imperial prince atsumi , had the most power .
minamoto no masanobu , imperial prince atsumi 's son , became sadaijin ; his daughter , minamoto no rinshi , was a wife of fujiwara no michinaga and mother of emperor ichijo chugu fujiwara no shoshi and kampaku fujiwara no yorimichi .
the lords of the imperial palace who kept their positions were the ayanokoji family and the sasaki clan , who were descendents of the masanobu , who had originally moved to ohmi and were indigenized and gave themselves the name sasaki .
genealogy
the emperor appointed fujiwara no tokihira and sugawara no michizane to positions of trust ( kampyo-no-chi ) .
the construction of the ninna-ji temple was ordered by emperor uda in 888 .
the imperial throne was passed to emperor daigo , and later emperor uda became a high priest at ninna-ji temple .
in the old days it was believed that emperor uda came to power due to his strict buddhist belief ; however , one recent theory says the reason was that dominant political control had been taken away from the fujiwara clan , or that it was done to stop the complaints from the royal families after emperor uda came into power by coming back to the imperial family , although he had become an allegiant ( as indicated by the retired emperor yozei in his remark in " okagami ( the great mirror ) , " which is described below ) .
emperor uda mentioned in " kampyo-goyuikai " / " kampyo-no-goyuikai ( a group of precepts for governing ) " that he was greatly shocked by the death of udaijin , minamoto no yoshiari , which could have been one of the reasons he left the throne .
on the other hand , the relationship with the retired emperor yozei was tense .
according to an anecdotal story in " okagami ( the great mirror ) , " the retired emperor yozei said that emperor uda used to serve him . it is also said to have been a big headache for the retired emperor uda as emperor yozei had tried to restore his government .
according to the " chousyu-ki " ( an article of june 7 , 1135 ) written during the hoei period , when the retired emperor yozei had tried to enter the palace , emperor uda forbade the retired emperor yozei from entering the palace without his permission ; however , later on emperor uda tried to enter the palace when the shotai-no-hen / shotai incident happened , and he tried to ask emperor daigo to stop sugawara no michizane 's degradation , but could not do so because of the regulation that he himself had made .
this was an example of a member of the imperial family who abdicated and then returned and became the emperor because there was no one to succeed the enthronement ; it is said that the event of emperor uda 's enthronement could have been set up by fujiwara no yoshiko and mototsune , although imperial prince motoyoshi was still alive .
a power struggle occurred after the young emperor uda was enthroned , when he and yoshitsune , who wanted control over the emperor , fought against each other in the " ako affair . "
although the affair was settled by emperor 's concession , the emperor was smarter than mototsune believed he was , and he changed the government into the " shinse " style ; for example , he appointed sugawara no michizane to a position of trust .
the emperor uda wrote " kampyo-goyuikai " / " kampyo-no-goyuikai ( a group of precepts for governing ) " and " kampyo-gyoki ( emperor uda 's diary ) . "
it is said that the emperor uda took actual control of the government while emperor daigo remained sick in his last years .
some people said that " engi-tenryaku-no-chi , " which was supposed to be governed well by emperor daigo and emperor murakami , should be called " kampyo-no-chi , " since the actual politics were based on emperor uda 's ( priest in a high position ) style .
there was a big waka ( japanese poetry ) ceremony called " teiji-in uta-awase , " which was held after emperor uda came to power , thus representing the great influence of the kokufu bunka ( japan 's original national culture ) .
it is said that the name of emperor uda came from the place where he abdicated ( tsuigo is sometimes considered to be a type of posthumous name , but strictly speaking these are two different names ) ; however , he spent most of the time at ninna-ji temple omuro , teijino-in and rokujo-in ( though another theory says the reason was that emperor uda spent his childhood at uda-in , which was the house of his father , emperor koko , when he was the imperial prince ) .
he was also called kampyo-hoo , teijinoin and dajo-emperor suzakuin .
ninna
kampyo
the imperial mausoleum is located at ouchiyama no misasagi , in uda-no-tani , narutaki , ukyo-ku , kyoto city .
all the emperors are enshrined in koreiden , one of the kyuchu-sanden ( three shrines of the imperial court ) .
