sanyodo ( senyodo or kagetomo-no-michi ) can mean :
a region of honshu along the seto inland sea that was one of the goki-shichido ( literally , " five provinces and seven circuits " ) administrative divisions .
a highway that traversed sanyodo , which was one of the goki-shichido .
a route built during the ritsuryo period .
a route built in the edo period ( saigoku-kaido ) .
an abbreviation for " sanyo jidoshado expressway . "
administrative division
see also : list of ryoseikoku
one of the goki-shichido , referring to a region of honshu along the seto inland sea
the region west of kinai and along the seto inland sea , from present-day west hyogo prefecture to yamaguchi prefecture , was collectively called sanyodo .
harima-no-kuni
mimasaka-no-kuni - separated from bizen-no-kuni in 713 .
bizen-no-kuni
bichu-no-kuni
bingo-no-kuni
aki-no-kuni
suo-no-kuni
nagato-no-kuni
during the ritsuryo period the sanyodo connected kinai ( naniwa-kyo , heijo-kyo , and heian-kyo ) and north kyushu ( dazaifu and hakata ) .
the sanyodo was only the first graded highway among the shichido , and as such it was regarded as the most important because of the expected passage and stays of foreign missions .
the eastern end of the road varied in response to the transfer of capitals such as heijo-kyo and heian-kyo .
the ancient sanyodo was approximately six to nine meters wide and generally straight in such a way that kokufu and other areas throughout the region could be connected efficiently .
the sanyodo stretched northwest from harima-no-kuni to mimasaka-no-kuni , which was away from the main route .
the edo shogunate improved the sanyodo as part of its road maintenance policy , which focused on five major highways .
there were 42 yadoeki along the highway .
during the edo period , the sanyodo ( otherwise known as saigoku-kaido ) connected kyoto to shimonoseki city and further extended to kokura city by crossing the kammon-kaikyo strait from shimonoseki .
this route was part of the truck line linking edo and nagasaki city .
the meiji government started its road management system by assigning numbers to national highways .
during the meiji period , the sanyodo of the edo period and earlier became a section of national highway 3 connecting tokyo city and kobe city ( separating from national highway 2 in kyoto city ) ; and of national highway 4 connecting tokyo and nagasaki city ; during the taisho period it was integrated into national highway 2 connecting tokyo and kagoshima city ( separating from national highway 1 in mie prefecture ) .
the sanyodo has been passed down to national highway 2 today , which connects osaka city and kita kyushu city .
its route , however , differs from that of the ritsuryo and edo periods in many places .
national highway 2 from okayama city ( okayama prefecture ) to fukuyama city ( hiroshima prefecture ) takes a very different route ( kamogata-orai route ) .
the sanyo jidoshado expressway and the railway lines of the sanyo main line and the sanyo shinkansen line roughly follow the historical sanyodo .
the sanyodo has served its function of connecting the kinki region and kyushu since the ritsuryo period , and it continues in that manner today .
when people say " sanyodo " today , they are generally referring to the sanyo jidoshado highway .
the historical sanyodo and the roads running in parallel with it are collectively called " old sanyodo " in okayama prefecture and east hiroshima prefecture , because national highway 2 does not follow it between okayama city ( okayama prefecture ) and fukuyama city ( hiroshima prefecture ) .
