information
located in the higashiyama ward of kyoto city , sanjyo-keihan station is a stop on the tozai line , a kyoto municipal subway line .
the station number is t11 .
the keihan electric railway
keihan main line and keihan oto line in sanjyo station ( in kyoto prefecture )
an underground concourse outside its ticket gate connects sanjyo-keihan station to sanjyo station .
the platform is located on the fourth underground level , as are the platforms of other stations on the tozai line . equipped with safety measures , the platform is what is known as an ' island platform , ' which is a single platform between double tracks ( one platform serving two tracks that run in opposite directions ) .
each station on the tozai line has its own color , and the color used at sanjyo-keihan station is scarlet tinged with purple .
refer to sanjyo-keihan for details on the station 's surroundings , including the location of the bus station .
kyoto city bus and other public transport firms have been calling this spot " sanjyo-keihan " since before the subway line was opened .
the municipal subway chose to use the name sanjyo-keihan because keihan was the name of another railway company and there was already a station named sanjyo in kyoto prefecture .
the station opened on october 12 , 1997 , when the tozai line began operating between daigo station and nijyo station .
on april 1 , 2007 , pitapa card was made available .
the station facilities were built by historical corporation of tozai line of kyoto municipal subway lines , a third sector company .
the keihan keishin line uses the same tracks as the tozai line . they originally planned to share the tracks to this station because the keihan keishin line ran between misasagi station and this station , which was above ground at the time . however , as they were unable to secure enough space around this area for a turnaround , the keihan keishin line decided to extend the shared section to the next station , kyoto shiyakusyo-mae , when sanjyo-keihan station was opened . ( they later extended the shared section even further to uzumasa tenjingawa station when the tozai line was extended to that station in 2008 . )
the kyoto municipal subway line
the tozai line
higashiyama station ( station number : t10 ) , owned and controlled by kyoto prefecture---sanjyo-keihan station ( station number : t11 ) ---kyoto shiyakusyo-mae station ( station number : t12 )
