muromachi bakufu was a samurai government established by takauji ashikaga .
it was japan 's second bakufu government , following the kamakura bakufu .
the name ' muromachi ' was derived from the muromachi-dono , which was built by yoshimitsu ashikaga , the third ashikaga shogun , to serve as the public residence of the shogun ( commonly known as hana no gosho , this residence is located in what is now kamigyo ward , kyoto city ) .
there are two views regarding the year of muromachi bakufu 's establishment--in november 1336 , when the administrative policies of bakufu were set up ( being clearly indicated as kenmu shikimoku ) , or in 1338 , when takauji ashikaga was assigned as seii taishogun ( literally , " great general who subdues the barbarians " ) by emperor komyo of jimyoin-to faction ( 持明院統 ) ; however , the former view is more convincing .
regarding the time when the bakufu ended , it virtually ended in 1573 when the fifteenth shogun , yoshiaki ashikaga , was banished from kyoto by nobunaga oda .
the period of slightly more than 240 years between the beginning and the end is called the muromachi period .
furthermore , the period until the unification of hokucho and nancho is called the period of the northern and southern courts , and the period after the onin war ( 1467 ) or the meio incident ( 1493 ) is called the age of civil war ( japan ) .
because procedures for the removal of seii taishogun were not implemented even after yoshiaki ashikaga 's banishment from kyoto , he was still treated as a shogun by the powers opposed to nobunaga .
" kugyo-bunin " treated yoshiaki as a shogun until february 9 1588 , when he followed hideyoshi toyotomi , chief adviser to the emperor , and visited the imperial palace , vowed loyalty to hideyoshi and was granted status as ju-sangu .
also , according to the official opinion of the government at the time , from the end of the meiji period until defeat in world war ii , nancho ( japan ) was regarded as the legitimate imperial line , and this age was referred to as the ' period of the northern and southern courts ( japan ) ' ; because of such a view , the first shogun takauji , the second shogun yoshiakira ashikaga and the third shogun yoshimitsu ashikaga were not acknowledged as official shoguns ( based on imperial history ) .
the staff organization of muromachi bakufu is more or less adapted from the organization of kamakura bakufu .
as for law , takauji enacted kenmu shikimoku as a basic law ( in 1336 ) .
as a detailed law , goseibai-shikimoku ( joe-shikimoku ) of the kamakura period was applied , and when necessary an additional law called ' kenmu-irai-tsuika ' was issued to supplement the above .
government during the initial period was unstable , partly because nancho still existed .
also , a government structure was assigned with the shogun at the top , along with samurai-dokoro , government office , monchu-jo , hyojo-shu , hikitsuke-shu as the control with the role of supporting the shogun .
muromachi bakufu was a united government of shugo daimyos , and the control originating from the chamberlain position of the ashikaga clan did not have the actual power that the regents of kamakura bakufu had ; consequently , government by bakufu was in principle conducted through a council system .
the major shugo daimyos referred to as sankan--the hosokawa clan , shiba clan and hatakeyama clan--assumed the position of control and supported the shogun , while the akamatsu clan , isshiki clan , yamana clan and kyogoku clan , as shishiki , assumed by turns the position of shoshi , the chief of samurai-dokoro .
major posts of the bakufu and shugos governing several lands were held by the ashikaga family such as the hosokawa clan , shiba clan , yamana clan , isshiki clan , hatakeyama clan , shibukawa clan , imagawa clan , uesugi clan ( cognate ) , etc .
also , hoko-shu was formed as the military power directly under the control of the shogun .
successive shoguns : a list of ashikaga shoguns
the collapse of the public ownership system of manors = transfer to the system of ownership by shugo daimyos and the development of a monetary economy are part of the characteristics of muromachi bakufu .
in the kamakura period , individual gokenin directly paid homage to the shogun ( although there were exceptions such as being hired by a strong gokenin ) , and shugos were mere supervisors of gokenin within their lands .
however , during the muromachi period the shugo daimyos directly hired samurais in their lands , who became their vassals , and exercised unified control over their lands ( since there are exceptions or differences by region , please refer to the item ' system of ownership by shugo daimyos ' for details ) .
subsequently , even shugo daimyos with power exceeding that of shogun muromachi were born .
against such circumstances , shogun muromachi hired samurais of various regions over the shugo daimyos ' heads , and formed ' hoko-shu ' as mentioned above , which not only strengthened the direct military power of the shogun but also deterred the control of shugo daimyos over their lands .
however , while there were cases in which the bakufu subdued individual shugo daimyos , there was no case where a shugo daimyo and shogun muromachi were fully in conflict with each other .
the shugo daimyos proceeded to exercise control over their lands by the authority that they were assigned to the position of shugo by bakufu .
therefore , no matter how much they expanded their power , they could not afford to deny the authority of shogun muromachi .
after all , if the authority of the shogun were to be eroded , so too would that of the shugo daimyo .
there were two shoguns who were assassinated ( the sixth , yoshinori ashikaga , and the thirteenth , yoshiteru ashikaga ) .
also , four shoguns who died in their place of exile ( the tenth , yoshitane ashikaga ; eleventh , yoshizumi ashikaga ; twelfth , yoshiharu ashikaga ; and fourteenth , yoshihide ashikaga ) .
upon the occurrence of kanno no joran , takauji ashikaga established the kamakura government in kamakura as an organization to control 10 countries in the east .
the position as chief of this organization was succeeded by the descendant of motouji ashikaga , a son of takauji , who served the position of kanto control ( 関東管領 ) .
throughout the muromachi period , kamakura-kubo ( 鎌倉公方 ) was opposed to bakufu and also became gradually opposed to the uesugi clan , who held the position of kanto control .
to compete with such power , bakufu directly hired strong local persons in the land of kanto and mutsu , as kyoto fuchi-shu .
consequently , in the era of yoshinori ashikaga the fourth kamakura-kubo , mochiuji ashikaga , who raised the eikyo rebellion , was conquered and temporarily direct rule by the shogun was exercised but eventually failed ; subsequently , mochiuji 's son shigeuji ashikaga was made the new kamakura-kubo .
however , shigeuji also raised the kyotoku rebellion and escaped to koga-jo castle , where he named himself koga-kubo ( 古河公方 ) , and as the uesugi clan split into the yamanouchi uesugi and ogigayatsu uesugi families , the kanto region was in a state of turbulence before the onin war started .
bakufu refused to simply wait with its arms folded but instead sent the younger brother of the eighth shogun , yoshimasa ashikaga , masatomo ashikaga , to kanto ( horikoshi-kubo ( 堀越公方 ) ) .
however , horikoshi-kubo was also defeated after masatomo 's death by moritoki ise ( soun hojo ) , a major vassal of the imagawa clan , and this ended in failure .
also , koga-kubo , after splitting off oyumi-kubo ( 小弓公方 ) , was made a puppet of the go-hojo clan , who were descendants of moritoki .
in kyushu , kyushu tandai , headquartered in hakata ( fukuoka city , fukuoka prefecture ) , was established .
initially , sadayo imagawa ( ryoshun ) , who had been ordered to subdue nancho powers such as imperial prince kanenaga , assumed the position , but the bakufu feared that ryoshun would establish his own power in kyushu ; after ryoshun was dismissed , descendants of the shibukawa clan succeeded in the position .
in the tohoku region oshu control ( 奥州管領 ) was established , which was abolished when two countries of ou became under the control of kamakura-fu , and during a certain period inamura-kubo ( 稲村公方 ) and sasagawa-kubo ( 篠川公方 ) were established .
oshu tandai ( 奥州探題 ) was established during the era of yoshimitsu ashikaga , and iekane shiba was assigned .
ushu tandai ( 羽州探題 ) split after the death of iekane , and the shiba clan of dewa became the mogami clan .
upon the abasement of the shogun 's authority after the onin rebellion , sankan shishiki ( other than the hosokawa clan ) also fell , and when in the middle of the age of civil war the power of the hosokawa clan weakened , the various systems of muromachi bakufu became mere terms .
meanwhile , the regional ruling classes called kokujin ( 国人 ) gained power .
in the southern part of yamashiro province , where the yamashironokuni riot occurred , self-government ( in addition to regional ruling classes , farmers , etc . ) also participated .
such kokujin powers were regrouped / merged and developed into strong warring lordships , which competed with each other and grew in power ; they replaced government by bakufu and gave rise to the trend of civil war that followed .
the majority of the financial income of muromachi bakufu came from goryo-sho ( 御料所 ) , which was directly controlled by bakufu ; but often , during the war of the northern and southern courts , the goryo-sho became a target and were taken by the opposing nancho side , or were given away as rewards for one 's own army , and the scale of goryo-sho is considered to be smaller than that of kamakura bakufu or edo bakufu .
additionally , tansen ( 段銭 ) and munabetsu-sen ( 棟別銭 ) , etc . , were charged .
operating taxes , etc . , were collected from merchants in exchange for the special privileges and protection provided to them , and tsuryou ( 津料 ) was charged from various ports and sekisen ( tolls ) from barriers .
furthermore , when a permanent right to charge yakusen ( 役銭 ) from doso ( 土倉 ) and sakaya ( 酒屋 ) in kyoto was allowed during the era of yoshimitsu ashikaga , yakusen were charged together with tansen , munabetsu-sen , etc . , by the doso appointed by bakufu , who were referred to as nosen-kata .
nosen-kata were later also entrusted with clerical matters such as the safekeeping / bookkeeping of tax income , and such doso were referred to as kubo-okura ( 公方御倉 ) .
furthermore , when yoshimitsu initiated trade between japan and ming , profit by chubunsen ( 抽分銭 ) also became the income of bakufu .
due to the limited numbers of trade activities , they remained as income of a temporary nature , but it is said that there were cases where income from a single trade was as great as the other tax income of several years .
other special income included reisen ( 礼銭 ) and buichisen ( 分一銭 ) .
furthermore , since the latter half of the fifteenth century , action was taken to make the yamashiro province ( within kyoto ) a goryo-sho .
