kurama-dera temple is a buddhist temple located in kurama honmachi , sakyo ward , kyoto city , kyoto prefecture .
it used to belong to tendai sect , but since 1949 it became independent and is now the head temple of kurama-kokyo sect .
sango is mount kurama .
it is said to have been established by gantei , a leading disciple of ganjin .
in this temple , the honzon ( main image of worship ) is referred to as " sonten . "
" sonten " is said to be the honzon that is a trinity of vaisravana , saharabhuja and goho maoson .
is located at the north of kyoto basin , on the sourthern slope of mount kurama , where rich natural environment remains .
kurama is also famous as the place where ushiwakamaru ( minamoto no yoshitsune ) trained himself , and it is also known as the setting for jiro osaragi 's book , " kurama tengu . "
it is the no. 19 new saigoku kannon pilgrimage site .
it operates a cable car ( mount kurama cable railway ) transportation to kurama temple , and it is the only religious corporation which operates a railway business .
various books including " konjaku monogatarishu " and " fusoryakuki " describe the beginning of kurama temple , and it is said that a person named fujiwara no isendo , who came from fujiwara nanke and served as the head of zoto-ji temple , enshrined vaisravana and sahasrabhuja , and built kurama temple .
however , " anbagaiji engi " , handed down for many generations in the temple , tells another story about the start of the temple , which is that gantei , a high disciple of ganjin , built a cottage in the 1st year of hoki , and enshrined vaisravana .
gantei was the youngest among the eight high disciples who ganjin brought back with him from tang ( present day china ) .
one night , in the third year of hoki , gantei saw a spiritual dream , which told him that there is a spiritual mountain in the north of yamashiro province .
gantei , who set off to visit the spiritual mountain , saw a white horse with a saddle made by treasures on top of a mountain .
that was mount kurama .
gantei , on entering the mountain , was attacked and nearly killed by an ogre who took the form of a woman , but when he was in extreme danger , a dead tree fell down and crushed the ogre .
the next morning , a statue of vaisravana was there , and it is said that gantei built a temple to worship this statue .
this story about gantei is only seen in " anbagaiji engi " , and it is not clear how far it tells an actual historical event .
nevertheless , it is notable that a priest of south capital ( nara ) took part in establishing the temple , as in the case of the establishment of kiyomizutemple .
later , in 796 , fujiwara no isendo , who was in charge of building an official temple , to-ji temple , wished to build a temple to place a kannon that he personally worshiped .
isendo , in accordance with a message revealed to him in a spiritual dream one night , followed a white horse and arrived at mount kurama , upon which he saw a small shrine that housed vaisravana .
isendo became suspicious saying , " i worship kannon , but it is vaisravana that is worshipped here . "
however , in his dream that night , a child appeared and told him that " kannon and vaisravana have different names , but fundamentally they are one and the same . "
thus it is said that isendo made a statue of sahasrabhuja and enshrined it together with vaisravana .
kurama-dera temple became a temple of shingon sect from around the time when priest buen of to-ji temple entered kurama temple during kanpyo era ( from 889 to 897 ) at the end of the 9th century , but it changed to tendai sect in the 12th century ; since then it has been under the control of shoren-in for a long time .
it appears to have attracted worshippers widely during the latter half of heian period , as can seen by the fact that emperor shirakawa came to worship in 1091 and moromichi fujiwara , the kanpaku , in 1099 .
" the pillow book " names the front approach of ninety-nine prayers of kurama temple as an example of " something which is near but also far " .
kurama temple has been burned down many times , including by the fire of year 1126 .
in 1812 ( ninth year of bunka of edo period ) , there was a great fire that engulfed the whole mountain in flames , and more recently , the main shrine was burned down by a fire in year 1945 .
therefore , all the buildings are new , but many cultural properties such as statues of the buddha have been preserved .
koun shigaraki , a chief priest in the showa era , started kurama-kokyo sect in 1947 .
in 1949 the temple became independent from tendai sect and is now the head temple of kurama-kokyo sect .
in mount kurama , located in the mountains of kyoto , mountain ascetic hermits actively practiced vajrayana buddhism .
therefore , it is said that tengus , who are spirits of the mountains , live in kurama .
the highest-ranking tengu that lives in kurama is called sojobo , and mount kurama is said to be one of the most supreme mountains for tengu .
kurama-dera temple , located north of kyoto , was initially a temple with vaisravana ( of the four heavenly kings , the king protecting the north-side ) as its honzon , and it also enshrined saharabhuja and goho maoson .
however , form of worship at the current kurama temple after the establishment of kurama-kokyo is unique , and some explanation is necessary regarding its honzon .
according to the explanation by the temple after the establishment of kurama-kokyo , the honzon of kurama temple main shrine golden hall ( the main shrine ) is said to be " sonten . "
within the shrine , vaisravana is enshrined in the center , saharabhuja is on the right side facing it , and goho maoson on the left side , and the three are collectively referred to as " sonten . "
" sonten " is said to be " the cosmic energy that gives lfe and existence . "
moreover , vaisravana represents the spirit of sunlight that symbolizes " light " saharabhujarepresents the sprit of moonlight that symbolizes " love " , and maoson represents the spiritual king of earth that symbolizes " power . "
the power of " sonten " is believed to exist everywhere , and since this power is especially strong in this area kurama-dera temple is said to be a place of practice where one can be surrounded by such power .
it is said that goho maoson , one of the sonten , came to earth from venus 6.5 million years ago ( not " 650 years " ago ) ; its body is formed from elements different from those ordinary human beings , and it is said to be in an eternal existence at the age of 16 and it does not age .
vaisravana , saharabhuja and goho maoson that are enshrined in golden hall of the main shrine are all secret buddha statues [ not open for public viewing ] ; in their stead statues referred to as " omae-dachi " are enshrined in front of these secret buddha statues .
omae-dachi maoson statue looks like an unworldly person , with wings on its back , and a long beard , and has a high nose .
the aureola is made from tree leaves .
goho maoson enshrined in two-storied pagoda has a similar form .
therefore , it is believed that " kurama tengu " was initially goho maoson .
although it is said to be 16 years old , it looks aged .
nio-mon was burned down in 1891 , and rebuilt in 1911 .
the cable car from sanmon station to tahoto station started operating in 1957 .
tahoto was rebuilt in 1959 .
great hall was rebuilt in year 1971 .
shinden was built in 1924 .
tenhorindo hall was rebuilt in 1969 .
mao-den of penetralia is a small shrine on top of a oddly-shaped rock located on a mountain road on the way from the main shrine to kibune shrine in the west .
it enshrines maoson , which is said to have arrived on earth from venus 6.5 million years ago .
the current building was rebuilt after being burnt down in 1945 .
reihoden hall is located at the back of the main shrine .
on the 1st floor there is kuramayama museum , which has an exhibition of the animals and plants of mount kurama .
the 2nd floor houses temple treasure exhibit room and yosano memorial hall , which exhibits articles , and other items left by tekkan yosano and akiko yosano ( koun shigaraki , who started kurama-kokyo sect , was a poet who studied under the yosano 's ) .
on the 3rd floor there is a sanctuary of buddhist statues , which exhibits cultural properties including three standing statues : wooden statue of bishamonten , wooden statue of kosshouten , and wooden statue of zennishi-doji .
there is a view that the honzon of kurama-dera temple were these three statues of bishamonten , and there is another view that the honzon probably looked similar to the tobatsu-bishamonten of the latter half of heian era , which is an important cultural property ; this statue is also enshrined in reihoden hall .
articles excavated from the ruin of kyozuka , which are items born from the idea of the latter day of the law during the latter half of the heian period can also be seen here .
also , akiko yosano 's library , named " tohaku-tei " , has been moved from its original location and reconstructed in front of reihoden hall .
wooden statue of bishamonten , wooden statue of kosshouten , and wooden statue of zennishi-doji .
kurama-dera temple , kyozuka , summary of relics
wooden statue of kannon
wooden statue of bishamonten
black lacquer sword
sword ( without the maker 's name )
copper lantern
kurama documents
fudasho
no. 19 of new saigoku 33 kannon pilgrimage sites
shimenouchi mode ( from new year 's day until january 15th )
hatsutora taisai ( the first day of the tiger in january )
setsubun tsuina ceremony ( the day of setsubun )
spring shutoku-kai ( the day of spring equinox )
shojohatsu kigan ceremony ( early april )
soten musubidenpo ceremony ( early april )
hanakuyo ( mid april )
uesaku-sai ( conducted in the evening of a full moon in may , on the day of a full moon in may )
takekirieshiki ( 2p.m. of june 20th )
nyoho shakyo / sutra copying gathering ( august 1st to august 4th )
yoshitsune matsuri ( september 15th )
autumn shutoku-kai ( autumnal equinox day )
autumn festival ( october 14th )
prayer for peace ( november 23rd )
osame no tora ( the 2nd day of the tiger in december )
go-ennichi of each month ( 1st , 7th and 14th of each month , day of the tiger ) .
kuramo no himatsuri / kurama fire festival ( october 22nd ) is a festival of yuki shrine , located close to nio-mon .
this is not sponsored by kurama-dera temple .
from within kyoto city to the front of kurama temple .
from demachiyanagi station of eizan electric railway , kurama line , it takes approximately 30 minutes to arrive at kurama station .
it takes 1 minute by foot to go from the station to nio-mon ( main gate ) .
from nio-mon to main shrine golden hall ( on foot ) .
nio-mon ( 0 ) - 287m - yuki shrine ( 50 ) - 791m - main shrine golden hall ( 160 )
the numbers in brackets are altitude measurements based on that of nio-mon ( unit : m ) .
the road is basically unpaved mountain road , although it is partially paved by stone .
it will take a grown man about 30 minutes to travel all the way on foot .
from nio-mon to main shrine golden hall ( by cable car ) .
nio-mon ( sanmon station ) ( 0 ) - 200m - tahoutou station ( 120 ) - 456m - main shrine golden hall ( 160 )
the numbers in brackets are altitudes measurements based on that of nio-mon ( unit : m ) .
because it is hard to visit and worship on foot for the elderly people , cable car ( mount kurama cable railway ) is operates between nio-mon and two-storied pagoda .
the time spent in the cable car is only about 2 minutes , and those who contribute 100 yen to the temple can ride the cable car for free ( essentially , the fare is 100 yen one way ) .
from the two-storied pagoda to main shrine golden hall , you need to walk about 10 minutes on a stone paved road .
if you are visiting and worshipping on foot , you need to go via yuki shrine .
the temple encourages people who can walk the distance , not to use the cable car and visit and worship the temple on foot .
access from kibune side
kibune shrine ( 35 ) - 573m - mao-den ( 185 ) - 460m - sekurabe ishi ( 235 ) - 404m - main shrine golden hall ( 160 )
the numbers in brackets are altitudes measurements based on that of nio-mon ( unit : m ) .
the entrance from kibune side is called nishi-mon .
this route is said to be the route that ushiwakamaru ran , when he trained with tengu .
as you will be crossing one mountain , it will be harder than climbing from the kurama side .
it will take about 50 minutes on foot , even for a grown man .
author : koun shigaraki " tengu no yama – kurama dayori / mountain of tengu – kurama newsletter " issued by daito publishing , year 1990 edition .
supervised by yasushi inoue and zenryu tsukamoto , written by shusaku endo and koun shigaraki " pilgrimage of old temple , kyoto 27 kurama temple " published by tankosha publishing
author : toshinori takemura " showa kyoto landmark guide , rakuhoku " published by shinshindo , year 1982 edition .
" shukan asahi hyakka – national treasures of japan " issue no. 13 ( kurama temple and others ) published by asahi shimbun , year 1997 edition .
" japanese history place names - place names of kyoto city " published by heibonsha
" kadokawa japanese place names dictionary – kyoto prefecture " published by kadokawa shoten
" national history dictionary " published by yoshikawa kobunkan .
