honchi-suijaku is one of the thoughts of shinbutsu-shugo ( the amalgamation of buddhism with shinto ) that emerged during the era in which buddhism flourished in japan ; it supports the view that yao yorozu no kami ( eight million gods ) are gongens , the embodiment of various types of buddhas ( including bosatsu ( bodhisattva ) and tenbu ( deva ) ) , which appeared in the land that was japan .
summary
honchi indicates the state of enlightenment , while suijaku , which literally means " bringing down jaku ( ato ) , " indicates the appearance of shinto and buddhist deities .
the ultimate honchi is considered to be hossin ( the truth of the universe ) and is therefore called honchi-hossin .
as the " gon " of gongen means " provisional " or " temporary , " as shown in " gon-dainagon ( an acting chief councilor of state ) , gongen indicates a buddha that has tentatively appeared in the form of a god .
the concept of honchi originated from the inclusive nature of buddhism , which encompassed a wide range of indigenous religions as it spread throughout the region .
this is evidenced by the fact that most buddhist tenbu ( deva ) gods originate from hindu , india 's indigenous religion .
the thought also gave rise to a theory of esoteric buddhism ( of the later mahayana buddhism ) that kajishin like fudo myo-o ( acala ) is the embodiment of dainichi nyorai ( vairocana ) .
on the other hand , the concept of suijaku came from a chinese character , 迹 ( jaku ) , which first appeared in the tenun chapter of " soshi ( zhuang-zi ) " or in its phrase of ' 所以迹 ' ( the path of edification ) , and was later referred to by guo xiang of west jin , the writer of " zhuang-zi commentary " who developed his own theory in the chapter of " seong-wang ( daiseigaio ) " and defined jaku as a royal reign , citing " 所以迹 " as a born saint .
it was seng-zhao , of the late qin , who first brought the concept to buddhism .
seng-zhao cited , in his writing " chuyuimakitsukyo ( vimalak ? rti sutra commentary ) , " the idea of " honmatsu , " which had been referred to by wang bi of wei , and other scholars replaced the word " 所以迹 " with " 本 " ( hon ) and defined it ( hon ) as an unfathomable nirvana ( enlightenment ) achieved by bodhisattva and " 迹 " ( jaku ) as a means to enlighten people , as used by bodhisattva .
his theory , as endorsed by hokekyo ( lotus sutra ) , which supports kuon jitsujo--a view that buddha had been in nirvana long before he was born into this world--further influenced zhiyi of the chinese tendai sect , thus providing a basis for the development of hokekyo 's educational interpretations and the division of its scripture into " jaku-mon " ( the first half ) and " hon-mon " ( the second half ) .
this created a widely accepted view that hon is the buddha or enlightenment itself while jaku is simply a means by which to save and enlighten people .
in japan , as is evident in the confrontation between the mononobe clan and the soga clan during the nara era , there has been a dividing line between shinto and buddhism since it was officially introduced to japan .
however , the line was gradually eroded as the buddhists took the view that shinto gods are a kind of lost , poor people , like the tenbu ( deva ) gods .
they tried to raise their status to that of the buddha by leaving copies of sutras at temples or doing doso , officially acknowledging the gods ' achievements and stating in oracles that they would no longer stay as a god thanks to buddha 's good deeds .
in the tenmu period of the late seventh century , when the emperor-centered political regime was put in place , the shinto gods that had played important roles in building the country--including amaterasu omikami , the highest ranking ujigami ( local god ) of all--were elevated in status to ethnic gods , and this encouraged buddhists to give them higher ranking as a token of respect .
because these gods were considered to be members of the goho zenjin , a group of gods who respected and guarded the buddhist law , some were even granted bosatsu-go ( the title of bodhisattva ) from the end of the nara era through the heian era .
a typical example of this is hachimanshin , a famous ethnic god also known as hachiman daibosatsu .
however , some low-profile minor ethnic gods , like the spirits of nature and death , to whom the honchi-suijaku theory was not applied , were treated differently .
they are , for example , jitsurui no kami ( jitsurui gods ) or jissha no kami ( jissha gods ) , as opposed to gonsha no kami .
to make their position clear , some buddhists codified a warning that permitted people to respect gongeshin but not jitsurui no kami .
this must have been an intentional effort to keep buddhism separate from shinto .
the theory of honji-suijaku affected art and architecture , giving birth to honchi-suijaku zuga ( pictures ) and gongen-zukuri ( buildings ) , and during the middle and end of the kamakura era it affected literature as well , resulting in a series of works called honchimono .
by the middle of the kamakura era there appeared a group of people who insisted in the shinpon butsujaku theory that buddhas were in turn the embodiment of shinto gods and that shinto gods were the masters that buddhas followed .
this theory was originated by shinto people who had complained about buddhism , which had been dominant over shinto , and wanted shinto to achieve independent status from it .
the watarai clan , who had served as priests of gegu ( the outer shrine of ise jingo ) organized and re-edited myths and the records of shinto ceremonies in order to compile the shinto gobusho ( five-volume apologia of shinto ) ; their work laid the foundation for ise watarai shinto .
additionally , an attempt was made to theorize shinto by borrowing the doctrine of the tendai sect , which had adopted the reality-affirming hongaku philosophy , and to re-edit several kinds of theory books by falsely attributing them to kukai ; but later these works were organized by yukitada and ieyuki watarai .
from the period of the northern and southern courts through the muromachi era , the anti-honchi-suijaku theory increasingly gained ground to the point where some monks of the tendai sect supported it .
jihen , the author of " kujihongi gengi " and " toyowashihara shinpuwaki , " converted to shinto ; and ryohen of the tendai sect , the author of " jindai no maki shikenbun " and " tenchi reiki kibunsho , " supported his theory .
following these moves , kanetomo yoshida wrote the book titled " yuiitsu shinto myoho yoshu ( the only shinto scripture ) , " making jihen 's theory more complete and comprehensive .
however , new buddhist schools that emerged during the kamakura era supported the honchi-suijaku theory as they were supposed to do .
note that the anti-honchi-suijaku theory was given its name by the scholars of the showa era .
suijakushin ( the god of suijaku ) and honchibutu ( the buddha of honchi )
the buddha , the identity of the gods , is called honchibutsu .
buddhas that are forcibly linked to shinto gods are different from religion to religion , faith to faith , temple to temple and shrine to shrine .
although the most popular buddhist title granted to japanese gods is bosatsu ( bodhisattva ) , some of them--like hachiman daibosatsu , whose honchibutsu title is amida nyorai ( amitabha ) --carry a honchibutsu title that differs from the corresponding buddhist title .
the following shows some of the relationships between suijakushin and honchibutsu :
amaterasu = dainichi nyorai ( vairocana ) + juichimen kannon bosatsu
hachimanshin = amida nyorai ( amitabha ) = emperor ojin
kumano gongen = amida nyorai ( amitabha )
oyama kui no kami = amaterasu omikami = dainichi nyorai ( vairocana )
ichikishima-hime = benzaiten ( sarasvati )
atagoo gongen = akiba gongen = jizo bosatsu ( jizo bodhisattva )
susanoo = gozu tenno
okuninushi = daikokuten ( mahakala )
tosho daigongen ( ieyasu tokugawa ) = yakushi nyorai ( bhaisaya )
matsuo taisha shrine = yakushi nyorai ( bhaisaya )
