waka is a fixed form of poem that has been created since jodai ( mainly the nara period ) .
the people who compose waka are called kajin poets .
appellation
waka is a name in contrast to the chinese poetry , and it is also called yamatouta ( 大和歌 ・ 倭歌 ) or just uta .
in the nara period it was called waka ( 倭歌 ) or washi ( 倭詩 ) .
in a broad sense , waka means choka ( long poem ) , tanka ( short poem ) , sedoka ( head-repeated poem ) , katauta ( half poem ) , and bussokusekika ( buddha 's footprint stone poem ) , but in a narrow sense it designates only tanka of 31 syllables .
therefore , it is also called misohitomoji ( 31 syllables . )
also , it is called yakumo , the name of which is based on the first word of the poem susanoo ( a deity in japanese mythology ) composed , and the poem is considered the first waka in japanese mythology : ' clouds ( yakumo ) , actively upwelling covered the eightfold fence.it makes the eightfold fence to have my new wife stay in the house.great eightfold fence . '
yakumo-no-michi ' means ' kado ( the art of waka poetry ) . '
just like ' yakumo-no-michi , ' ' shikishima-no-michi ( roads in japan ) ' means kado .
shikishima means yamato or japan , so it literally means ' roads in japan . '
it suggests that to compose poems was the japanese traditional culture .
also , there is a unique form of poem called ryuka ( ryukyu poetry ) in okinawa prefecture .
waka means uta ( song ) and fixed-form poetry consisting of five and seven syllables and written in yamato-kotoba ( a word of purely japanese origin ) .
waka is considered to be both literature and music , but generally it is taken as one genre of japanese literature , so the element of ' uta ' has been excluded in japanese education .
katauta
tercets of five , seven and seven syllables
it is a half-poem that is sung by one of the two people , and it is the shortest poem .
sedoka
two tercets of five , seven and seven syllables each
it is a repeated form of katauta , and most of the sedoka is mondoka ( dialogue poem ) .
choka
it consists of alternating lines of five and seven syllables , and ends with an extra seven-syllable line .
the five and seven syllables are repeated more than three times , and then seven-syllable line is added at the end .
choka had been seen a lot in manyoshu ( collection of ten thousand leaves ) , but it was not composed any more when kokinshu ( collection of poems ancient and modern ) was compiled .
choka was mainly composed in public , and was followed by hanka ( envoi ) .
tanka
it consists of five lines of five , seven , five , seven and seven syllables .
later the form was divided into two parts ( the first part of five , seven and seven syllables , and the latter part of seven and seven syllables ) , and then renga ( linked verse ) and haikai ( 17-syllable verse ) were generated .
bussokusekika form
it consists of six lines of five , seven , five , seven , seven and seven syllables .
imayo ( an ancient verse form )
it consists of eight lines of seven , five , seven , five , seven , five , seven and five syllables .
it was created in the middle of the heian period .
jinku poetry ( dodoitsu )
it consists of four lines of seven , seven , seven and five syllables .
it was created in the edo period .
it is often seen in minyo ( folk songs ) of all areas in japan .
hayashikotoba ( a meaningless refrain used to maintain the rhythm of a song ) is often inserted into it .
it is also said that the name of dodoitsu appeared after the last days of the tokugawa government .
makura kotoba ( pillow word )
jo kotoba ( introductive word )
kake kotoba ( pivot word )
engo ( related word )
honkatori ( adaptation of a famous poem )
taigendome ( noun appearing at the end of waka )
tsuiku ( couplet )
kugire ( caesura )
hiko is to recite waka to a tune , and there are some schools of reciting such as the ayanokoji school and the reizei school .
today it is seen at the new year imperial poetry reading party , certain events in shrines , etc .
before the fixed form of waka was established , it had been called jodai kayo .
it is also said that the screams and cheers let out with excitement increasingly grew to be songs sung in groups at festivals and during laborious work .
most of them are considered to have been lost without being written down , but about 300 poems have survived in the books of " kojiki ( records of ancient matters ) , " " nihon shoki ( chronicles of japan ) , " " fudoki ( notes on local legends and geography ) , " " manyoshu , " " kogoshui ( commentaries on ancient words and practices ) , " " kinkafu ( poetry collection ) " and " bussokusekika hi ( stele ) . "
there was a group event called utagaki ( dancing and singing feast of young men and women ) as one of the customs in those days .
jodai kayo came to be an origin of ceremonial songs such as kagurauta ( songs ) and saibara ( folk songs ) , which were accompanied with instruments , and its form and poetic devices became progenitors of the later waka .
jodai kayo in " kojiki " and " nihon shoki " were especially called kiki kayo .
they are not independent ballads but used to enhance an effect of narrative , and some of them are said to have been creative songs or ceremonial songs made by court people .
poetic devices such as tsuiku , kurikaeshi ( repetition ) , makura kotoba , jo kotoba , etc . , were used for a verse form of basic lines of five and seven syllables , like katauta , sedoka , tanka and choka .
the other ballads in the same period were of the kind inscribed on the monument of bussokusekika in yakushi-ji temple in nara and " kinkafu , " which was a book on the wagon ( a japanese string instrument , also called the yamatogoto , that consisted of a flat , shallow sound box with six strings , much like a zither ) , was copied in the middle of the heian period .
in the process of giving unification to japan , chinese poetry was introduced to japan from the chinese continent , and under its influence poems to express individual feelings were energetically composed .
those poems were compiled into " manyoshu . "
according to the notes in manyoshu , there had been some other anthologies before manyoshu , such as " kokashu ( collection of old poetry ) , " " kakinomoto no hitomaro 's collection , " " kasanokanamura collection , " " takahashi no mushimaro 's collection of poetry , " " book of poetry of tanabe no sakimaro , " " ruiju-karin ( collection of poetry ) , " etc . , but none of them has survived .
it is said that manyoshu was compiled by many people over a long period of time , but it was otomo no yakamochi who in the end edited and made a 20-volume anthology as it is .
manyoshu contains about 4500 poems , the earliest of which was composed in the reign of emperor nintoku , but most of them were being made during the period of less than 100 years from the asuka period to the middle of the nara period .
most of the poems have realistic and objective styles , and there are some poems made by people in general , such as azumauta poetry and sakimori-no-uta ( frontier guards ' poems ) besides the poems of court nobles .
during the early heian period , chinese poetry overwhelmed waka as a public literature .
zotoka ( poems exchanged between a man and a woman ) became the leading style of waka , and the number of waka composed in the imperial court decreased compared with that of the nara period .
however , in the middle of the heian period the decline of tang and abolishment of kentoshi ( the embassy to the tang dynasty ) lessened the influence of chinese culture , and kokufu bunka was developed .
in its process , waka gradually regained its position as an official culture along with the development of kana characters ( the japanese syllabaries ) , and uta awase ( poetry match ) came to be held .
in the book of " shinsen manyoshu ( newly selected manyoshu ) , " japanese poems were put beside the chinese poems , which suggested that the japanese poetry was regaining its status as an official literature .
under such circumstances , " kokin wakashu ( collection from ancient and modern times ) , " the first anthology of japanese poetry compiled by imperial command , was made and offered to the emperor .
subsequently , waka became a synonym for tanka .
" kokin wakashu " was compiled by imperial command of emperor daigo in 905 ; the compilers were ki no tsurayuki , ki no tomonori , oshikochi no mitsune and mibu no tadamine .
it contains about 1000 poems in 20 volumes , which were composed after " manyoshu . "
intellectual and ideal styles of poetry are characteristic of this collection .
fifty years later , in the reign of emperor murakami , wakadokoro ( bureau of poetry ) was established , where nashitsubo no gonin ( five men of the pear chamber ) read the chinese characters in " manyoshu , " which was already difficult to read at that time , in the japanese pronunciation , and compiled and dedicated " gosen wakashu ( later collection of japanese poetry ) " to the emperor .
most of the poems are zotoka written by court nobles , and there is a tendency toward narrative poems .
more 50 years later , around the reign of emperor ichijo , " shui wakashu ( collection of gleanings ) " was compiled and dedicated to the emperor .
it followed a tradition of " kokin wakashu , " which had elegant , refined styles .
during the late heian period , the sekkan ( regent and chief councilor ) government began to decline , and a change occurred in the aristocratic culture .
" go shui wakashu ( later collection of gleanings ) " was compiled around this time and was dedicated to the emperor .
compared with the conservative " go shui wakashu , " the following " kinyo wakashu ( a collection of golden leaves ) " was innovative and focused on fresh descriptive poems ; however , the subsequent " shika wakashu ( a collection of verbal flowers of japanese poetry ) " marked a return to the conservative style .
after the genpei war ( the final struggle between the taira and genji ( minamoto ) clans ) , the retired emperor go-shirakawain ordered fujiwara no toshinari to compile " senzai wakashu ( collection of a thousand years ) . "
it shows a tendency toward the principle of art for art 's sake in the destruction of the aristocracy and the rise of samurai warriors , elevating the status of waka in the late heian period .
the following " shin kokin wakashu ( new collection of ancient and modern japanese poetry ) " was compiled and dedicated to the emperor by toshinari 's disciple .
in the kamakura period , court nobles who had been deprived of their power came to depend on the traditional culture , so they composed waka energetically .
bearing feelings of rivalry toward kamakura , the retired emperor go-tobain who showed much enthusiasm for waka ordered the compilation of " shin kokin wakashu . "
most of the poems were not based on real experiences but on a fictional world .
the principle of art for art 's sake , as seen in senzai wakashu , was further refined , and poetic devices reached their culmination .
on the other hand , the following two people were respected : saigyo , who made poems on love toward nature and his view of life , and minamoto no sanetomo , who composed poems in the manyo style .
after the death of fujiwara no sadaie , who had been a central figure in the compilation of " shin kokin wakashu , " his son tameie became a mentor of the tanka composers ' society , but after tameie passed away , both the fujiwara family and the tanka composers ' society were divided into three schools : the nijo , kyogoku and reizei .
the three schools struggled to attain leadership , and both the nijo and kyogoku schools compiled collections of poems one after another by imperial command .
since around the period of the northern and southern courts ( japan ) , waka came to be composed mainly by monks and samurai , while the composition of waka spread to local samurai , and some of the waka that lapsed into formalism declined .
in the early modern times , traditional studies of waka were compiled into a book , and many kajin poets appeared , but waka had already been perfected as ' kado , ' so a new style did not emerge .
compared with haikai , which had been just generated , waka was traditional japanese culture that had continued since jodai ( ancient times ) ; therefore , its degree of innovation was suppressed .
at the end of the early modern times , a new movement of waka arose in kyoto , and there appeared the keien school of jigenin ( a court official who has not obtained the imperial ordinance of promotion ) derived from the nijo school of dojo ( a family who is allowed to be promoted to court noble ) .
the keien school had been a leading school in the tanka composers ' society until the early meiji period .
highly educated people of the early meiji period played important roles in the tanka composers ' society , as represented by the outadokoro school and keien school , but people who intended waka reform ( shiki masaoka , tekkan yosano , and so on ) criticized both the style and elegant poetic devices of daiei ( poetry composed on a given theme ) , and thus there emerged a new style of waka suitable for the new era .
however , in order to discern the new waka from the traditional one , these new poems came to be commonly called ' tanka ' ( see also tanka ) .
people who compose waka are called kajin poets .
they are also called utabito .
see also the list of kajin poets .
kasei ( great poet ) is an honorific title given to a master of waka .
it not only shows respect to the kajin poet but also indicates those who are treated as gods in kado , such as kakinomoto no hitomaro and yamabe no akahito .
kashu is a book in which waka are collected .
chokusen wakashu ( chokusen shu )
the collection was compiled by imperial order .
shisen wakashu ( personal collection of poetry ) , or shisen shu
a collection of poems compiled by individuals or nongovernmental circles
above all , ogura hyakunin isshu ( one hundred poems by one hundred poets ) , compiled by fujiwara no sadaie , is familiar to everyone , and it has had great influence on the japanese people 's appreciation of waka .
shikashu ( personal collection )
a collection of poems written by a single author .
because waka began as accompaniment to a tune , the number of letters ( the number of syllables , or mora ) is not strictly confined if it is read in a singsong manner .
therefore , as long as it is read in a singsong manner the poem doesn 't essentially seem to have ' extra syllables or insufficient syllables , ' even if it doesn 't consist of lines with five and seven syllables .
the idea of ' extra or insufficient syllables ' arose from a sense of beauty for a fixed form of verse to write down instead of reciting it .
in the context of western music , waka has a slow quadruple time that establishes its rhythm in sets of two bars .
five syllables consists of five crotchets and three crotchet rests in one rhythm ( two bars ) , while seven syllables consists of seven crotchets and one crotchet rest in one rhythm , but if the total number of crotchets and crotchet rests is eight in one rhythm ( two bars ) , then it is acceptable ( nine syllables includes a triplet part ) .
a verse form depends on the combination and number of the rhythm .
for example , a tanka is made up of five sets of two bars , giving a total number of ten bars .
the tanka , that ' temporary hermitage , with straw mat on the roof , in autumn rice field.my cloth would be getting wet with rain " is said to be divided into two parts of ' five , seven , six and seven , seven , ' having an extra syllable , but if the poem is divided by a set of two bars , ' akinota ( autumn rice field ) ' is used more .
an example of applying western-style harmony to tanka and deserting the manner of reciting waka ( rhythm ) is ' kimigayo ( the japanese national anthem ) , ' and in this case the rhythm of tanka , as stated above , was abandoned in the adjustment to the western system of harmony .
on the other hand , ' kojo no tsuki ( the moon over the deserted castle ) ' is an excellent piece of music that has been applied to western-style harmony without destroying the waka rhythm of seven and five syllables .
