amanohashidate is a scenic spot in miyazu bay , near miyazu city in kyoto prefecture .
amanohashidate is a sand spit ( geologically , a sand bar ) 3.2km long ( daitenkyo , shotenkyo ) , lined with about 7,000 pine trees , and ranging in width from 20m to 170m at its base .
it stretches from miyazu bay to the aso sea .
miyazu bay opens into the aso sea via monju-no-kirido and monju-no-suiro .
the name can also refer to the area including kasamatsu park , which has a view of amanohashidate .
daitenkyo and shotenkyo are connected by a drawbridge ( in the picture on the right , between the land in the foreground and the sand spit ) , below which tour boats and other small boats pass .
it got its name from the fact that if you look at it upside-down , it looks like a bridge across the sky .
the name came from people looking through their legs from kasamatsu park on the north side , a view that is traditionally considered very beautiful ( the view from kasamatsu park is also called a " slanted number 1 " ) .
the view from the south side ( and that from vantage point ) , called " flying dragon " ( hiryukan .
because it looks like a dragon climbing into the sky ) , is also popular , drawing just as many tourists as the north side .
there are other vantage points : the view from the east side is called sesshukan (
from " amanohashidate-zu " by sesshu , shown at left ) ; and the view from the west is called " ichijikan " (
because it looks like the kanji character for 1 , or ichi ) .
since it has been famous from ancient times , examples can be found in literature , such as the poem by koshikibu no naishi in the hyakunin-isshu , " by mt . oe the road to ikuno is long , i have not yet seen amanohashidate " ; and in the tango no kuni fudoki it is written that izanagi had a ladder to climb to heaven , but it fell over while he was sleeping and became amanohashidate .
since the edo period it has been counted as one of japan 's three scenic views , along with matsushima ( current miyagi prefecture ) and miyajima ( current hiroshima prefecture ) .
on november 22 , 1952 , it was designated by the national government as a place of special scenic beauty , and has also been selected as one of the top 100 white sand beaches and green pine groves of japan ( hakushaseisho hyakusen ) .
although it was designated a part of the wakasa bay quasi-national park on june 1 , 1955 , it indepedently became tango-amanohashidate-oeyama quasi-national park on august 3 , 2007 .
in 2007 it was selected as one of japan 's top 100 geological features ( chishitsu hyakusen ) .
kyoto prefecture and miyazu city have made suggestions to the agency for cultural affairs as candidate for the tentative ( unesco ) world heritage site list , and named their suggestion " amanohashidate : the origin of japan 's cultural scenery " .
air
osaka international airport ( itami ) - tajima airfield ( japan air commuter co . , ltd . )
connections to japan airlines corporation 's flights to tokyo at osaka international airport
zentan bus airport shuttle from kounotori tajima airport to toyooka station ( hyogo prefecture )
take kitakinki tango railway from there and get off at amanohashidate station .
about 60 minutes by car from kounotori tajima airport ( or from downtown toyooka )
ｒailｗay
get off the kitakinki tango railway miyazu line at amanohashidate station .
about 2 hours from kyoto station via jr non-stop express
a short walk from amanohashidate station to the southern end of amanohashidate
to get to kasamatsu park on the north side , take the tango kairiku kotsu bus or tour boat to ichinomiya and walk toward fuchu station .
from there , get on the amanohashidate cable railway , and then walk from kasamatsu station .
car
from kyoto
via trans-kyoto expressway , tamba interchange to national route 27 , ayabe ankokuji interchange to trans-kyoto expressway , miyazu amanohashidate interchange to national route 178 , to kyoto prefectural route 2 , to amanohashidate
from osaka
via chugoku expressway , yoshida junction to maizuru wakasa expressway , ayabe junction to trans-kyoto expressway , miyazu amanohashidate ic to national route 176 , to kyoto prefectural route 2 , to amanohashidate
amanohashidate has shrunk in recent years due to erosion , and is in danger of disappearing .
this is because dams were built on the rivers after the war , reducing the amount of sediment carried from the mountains to the sea , and destroying the balance of sediment deposits and erosion on amanohashidate .
to prevent further erosion , the administration has installed many small erosion barriers on the sand bar in an attempt to stop the sand from washing away ( in the picture from the south ( hiryukan ) , it is the part on the right where the beach is serrated ) .
at one time the trees were blighted by pine weevils , and were in danger of being wiped out .
since then a pest eradication program has been implemented and the problem is currently in abatement .
the story of amanohashidate : its culture , history , and preservation - yuichi iwagaki ( july 2007 , gihodo shuppan ) isbn 978-4-7655-1721-8
