seii taishogun ( literally , " great general who subdues the barbarians " ) was one of the shogun positions in japan 's ryoge no kan ( class outside of the ritsuryo system ) .
it was abolished in the meiji restoration .
it was one of the names given to the general dispatched to the eastern part of the country from the nara period to the heian period .
also abbreviated to shogun , kubo , taiju , taijuko , gosho , etc .
although there were no posts called seiju taishogun or seiban taishogun , there were the similar posts of seiteki daishogun and seisei taishogun .
from the kamakura period until the edo period , it was the head of the shogunate , a position held by the leader of the samurai families , and became hereditary to his descendants .
although he was formally a retainer appointed by imperial edict , he was in fact the ruler of japan who even held sway over the imperial court , and typically was treated as the king by outsiders .
' seii ' means ' to conquer the barbarians . '
the seii taishogun was a general appointed for conquering ' barbarians , ' and led an army in an advance from the pacific ocean side .
a general who led an army 's advance to the japan sea side was called seiteki daishogun , and one who led an army 's advance into kyushu was called seisei taishogun .
it is thought that this was an adaptation of the sinocentrism of ' shii ' ( four barbarians ) , ' toi , seiju , namban and hokuteki . '
in fact , at first it was called ' seii ' but from hoki onward it became ' seito , ' and was again called ' seii ' from 793 on .
the first ' seii shogun ' was appointed on september 29 , 720 , and was tajihi agatamori ; the first ' seito taishogun ' was appointed on december 7 , 788 , and was ki no kosami .
the title of shogun is not uniform in the records , with fujiwara no umakai , for example , being ' jisetsu taishogun ' at the time of his appointment , and ' seii jisetsu taishi ' at the time of his return to the capital .
on july 13 , 791 , otomo no otomaro was appointed seito taishi .
on february 17 , 793 , seitoshi was changed to seiishi .
' shi ' was also called ' shogun , ' and one school of thought says this is the first appearance of a seii taishogun , but the issue gets more complicated .
below otomo no otomaro was the seito fukushi / seii fukushi , sakanoue no tamuramaro , who was appointed seii taishogun on november 5 , 797 .
tamuramaro brought aterui , of the ezo of isawa , who had fought stubbornly until then , back to the capital , thereby conquering that land .
practically speaking , tamuramaro can be seen as the first seii taishogun .
later , on april 17 of 811 , during a battle with the ezo , funya no watamaro was appointed seii shogun , without the ' tai , ' and on december 11 of that year reported the end of the conquest of the ezo , and mononobe no taritsugu , who had been fukushogun , rose to chinju shogun ( without the ' fu ' ) , but on november 17 , 814 , became again seii shogun without the ' tai . '
in fact , below the seii taishogun were the posts of seii fukushogun , seii gungen , seii gunso , etc .
at first minamoto no yoritomo was nothing but the leader of the kanto bushidan ( kamakura-dono ) , and did not hold a position under the ritsuryo system .
that is to say that at first he was only the head of a provincial insurrection , the same as taira no masakado .
that same yoritomo 's plan for a new government used as models the three governments of the taira family , kiso yoshinaka , and the provincial government of the oshu fujiwara clan , and it is thought that the form of the kamakura government was molded out of comparative consideration of these .
under the administration led by the taira family , given that the position of court noble was already very high at the time , court nobles reached the height of their powers when the taira family , part of the taira clan , became court nobles .
in contrast to that , yoritomo worked toward elevating the status of warriors themselves .
with respect to the imperial court , they sought a suitable position in order to establish the independent sovereignty of the warriors .
yoshinaka kiso , who advanced into the central area and kyoto , took the position called ' seii taishogun , ' which had previously existed .
the position of seii taishogun had a hint of a mission to punish the eastern forces , and yoshinaka 's hidden intent to oppose yoritomo has been surmised from that , but the yoshinaka government was over very shortly ( in fact , in recent years the story that says yoshinaka was not ' seii taishogun ' but ' seito taishogun ' is gaining ground .
it is the later compilations such as " azuma kagami " and " hyakurensho " that give him the title ' seii taishogun , ' while " gyokuyo " and " sankaikoryonukigakiyo " ( excerpts from " sankaiki " ) , historical documents that were written at the time these events took place , have his title as ' seito taishogun . '
furthermore , it is thought that , as a post that would conquer yoritomo of bando , ' seito taishogun , ' a post previously taken by fujiwara no tadabumi to conquer taira no masakado of bando , was better than ' seii taishogun , ' which conquered the ezo of ou .
the oshu fujiwara clan ruled the northeast region at that time , as it was an area to which the imperial court 's rule did not extend .
the oshu fujiwara clan secured the position of ' chinjufu shogun ' and called their own residence ' yanagi no gosho ' or ' ryuei . '
ryuei is another name for the shogunate .
the chinjufu shogun was granted regional autonomy in the form of military rule within mutsu province and dewa province , and as this position was formally one of an officer commanding the standing army on the border ( in the case of the seii taishogun , it was commanding a temporary expeditionary force ) , it was not necessary for the holder of this title to live in kyoto , which was very convenient for a regional leader .
this seems to have been the yoritomo government in microcosm .
in 1190 yoritomo was appointed to ukone no daisho ( udaisho ) and had his own organs of household government approved as government offices .
however , the konoe daisho was required , by the nature of that position , to live in kyoto , and was not suited to moving toward independence in kanto .
then yoritomo resigned from udaisho , and held onto those privileges as a former udaisho .
it is thought that the notion of using the title of ' former udaisho ' for heads of state in the kamakura government was not unheard of .
however , although the formal position of the post of udaisho was high , compared to the rival kiso yoshinaka , who was seii taishogun ( or seito taishogun ) , as it was an officer of the central imperial guards , it was not a position for actively suppressing regional disturbances with military force .
also , compared to the oshu fujiwara clan 's chinjufu shogun , it lacked the important , active element of ' warrior 's self-rule . '
what yoritomo turned his attention to then was the office of ' seii taishogun . '
as military rule ( regional sovereignty ) , it was the same as the chinjufu shogun .
however , given that the goal of this position was to lead the bando soldiers ( in this case , warriors from eastern japan ) to victory over the ezo of ou ( in this case , the oshu fujiwara clan ) , it was traditionally a post superior to that of chinjufu shogun .
to put it another way , the seii taishogun was the one who placed a private position called kamakura-dono to rule as a leader of the warriors of eastern japan , shugo and jito throughout the country , was recognized as udaisho with the authority to exercise military police powers , had family organs of clan governance treated the same as official government offices , and bundled it all together and officially secured it .
however , there is reason to believe that the post of seii taishogun was deemed necessary especially in the oshu war to defeat the oshu fujiwara clan , and when he was in fact appointed in 1192 it had already lost its importance to yoritomo .
yoritomo was not in fact very attached to the seii taishogun post , and indicated his intent to resign 2 years later in 1194 .
also , minamoto no yoriie was his heir and right away was appointed to sakone no chujo , and then saemon no kami , and was proclaimed seii taishogun 3 years later .
then at the time of the hiki yoshikazu incident , the succession of the positions of sotsuibushi and sojito were in question , and the shogun posts were not involved .
consequently , at this stage the shogun post was not an absolute requirement for leadership of the warrior families , and may not have been seen as that important .
on the other hand , the post of shogun was proclaimed first when it came to succeeding minamoto no sanetomo .
when the minamoto clan 's shoguns ended after the third one , shoguns from regent families or royal shoguns were installed as puppets and the regent hojo clan held the real power .
from the kamakura period on , after minamoto no yoritomo took the position of seii taishogun and started the shogunate , the warrior families came to control japanese politics .
along with that seii taishogun was the highest authority of the warrior families and japan 's substantive sovereign .
although it was originally a post bestowed by the imperial court , actual appointments , except for a time during the new kemmu government , were at the request of the person whose influence placed him at the pinnacle of samurai society .
formally speaking , among the nobles it was recognized that the court was the true government and the shogunate was a temporary government in the provinces .
however , among warrior families that was not the case .
in the period of the northern and southern courts , akiie kitabatake of the southern court , as chinjufu shogun , was allowed to be called chinjufu taishogun , but it is thought that this was done to put it on a level with and oppose the seii taishogun .
historical traditions
it was customarily accepted by the warrior families that ' the families that could rise to shogun , leader of the samurai , were limited to those extending from the seiwa genji . '
because the oda family claimed a connection with the taira family , nobunaga oda was not able to become ' seii taishogun ' ; and when ieyasu tokugawa was appointed ' seii taishogun , ' he falsified a connection to the seiwa minamoto clan ; and there are other such tales .
however , nobunaga oda in fact received an imperial recommendation for ' appointment to seii taishogun , ' so realistically there was no basis for the idea that one could not be shogun if he was not from the minamoto clan ( it seems that the reason ieyasu claimed minamoto heritage was not only to become shogun , but that by becoming the minamoto clan chief and entering the post of shogun , he would oppose hideyoshi 's warrior kampaku system and aimed to gain authority to rule over both the warriors and the nobles ) .
furthermore , even after yoritomo , there are examples of regent shogun and imperial shogun , so it was not in fact limited to the seiwa minamoto clan .
all this can be interpreted to mean that someone from the minamoto or taira clans , or even from the noble fujiwara clan , could become seii taishogun .
a recently popular explanation on the subject is that , since ' seii taishogun ' was originally a post for leading soldiers of eastern japan in conquest over the ezo , the condition for assuming office was that he had to be ' someone who controls eastern japan in some form . '
there are various opinions as to whether or not nobunaga oda wanted to be seii taishogun , but it is not possible to know for sure .
in fact , there is some speculation that what became a nominal qualification for the imperial recommendation for appointment to seii taishogun was that nobunaga wiped out the takeda clan , who were eastern japan daimyo , and effectively made the hojo clan of kanto subservient .
also , there are those who say that hideyoshi toyotomi was not able to become seii taishogun because he lost to ieyasu tokugawa in the battles of komaki and nagakute .
however , hideyoshi was appointed to kampaku , a higher ranking position than seii taishogun .
for that reason , it is possible to speculate that hideyoshi was not interested in the shogun post , and wanted not a simple samurai government , but a new government that would subsumed the nobles .
on the other hand , there was previously , among the nobles , a tendency to view a person 's pedigree - whether minamoto or taira clan - as ' taira who are close to the nobles ' or ' the warrior minamoto clan who are difficult to control . '
also stemming from this came the idea that the minamoto and taira clans , or the minamoto and taira families , alternately take control of political power in japan ( gempei kotai shiso ) .
in fact , although there is an apocryphal tale that taira no tomomori and mitsuhide akechi were appointed to seii taishogun , there is no historical evidence to indicate so .
successive seii taishoguns
cavalry taishogun
seito shogun
seisei shogun ( seisei taishogun )
chinjufu shogun
seito taishogun
taishogun
shogun
fukushogun
