jurakudai ( or jurakutei ) was a large residence built by hideyoshi toyotomi in uchino , kyoto ( the site of the outer palace precincts in heiankyo , present-day kamigyo ward , kyoto city ) during the azuchi-momoyama period .
also called jurakutei .
it is a kind of castle with a moat , and thus sometimes called juraku-jo castle .
the construction of jurakudai began in february 1586 , as an office and an official residence of hideyoshi , who became kanpaku ( chief advisor to the emperor ) , a chief councilor to the emperor , and completed in september 1586 .
after hideyoshi conquered kyushu , he moved into jurakudai from osaka to administer political affairs .
on may 9 , 1588 , he was visited by emperor go-yozei and entertained him in jurakudai .
also , he gave an audience to tensho shonen shisetsu ( boys ' envoys to europe during the tensho era ) and ieyasu tokugawa in jurakudai .
jurakudai was supposedly extremely luxurious with its tiles covered with golden leaf .
although being called " -dai " ( meaning tei / house ) , jurakudai was in fact a castle on a plain , since it included several enclosed areas such as a donjon with a castle tower in the center and a secondary enclosure around it , and was surrounded with a moat .
within jurakudai , houses for hideyoshi 's aides , sen no rikyu et al. were built .
kitano tenman-gu shrine , where the kitano grand tea ceremony was held in october 1587 , is located nearby uchino , where jurakudai was .
in december 1591 , when hideyoshi resigned as kanpaku , his nephew hidetsugu toyotomi succeeded him as kampaku and took over jurakudai , at which time emperor go-yozei visited again .
in 1594 , hideyoshi began construction of fushimi-jo castle for his residence after his retirement , and in 1595 , because of an adverse relationship with hideyoshi , hidetsugu was sent to mt . koya-san and then ordered to commit suicide , thereafter jurakudai was demolished .
many buildings of jurakudai were relocated into fushimi-jo castle , but some other buildings such as hiunkaku of nishi-hongan-ji temple , karamon of daitoku-ji temple , daimon of myokaku-ji temple ( kyoto city ) , and the entrance of hanto-in of myoshin-ji temple , are also reported to have been relocated from jurakudai .
name
it is known that jurakudai was once called " uchino okamai " ( or uchino no onkamae ) during construction , which first appears in " tamon-in nikki " ( the diary of tamon-in temple ) , in the section of february 27 , 1586 , ' the construction of uchino okamai began on the last 21st . '
the name " juraku " began to be used after hideyoshi came back from the kyushu campaign .
as to the origin of the name " juraku , " there is a description of ' the place for gathering ( ju ) songs and dances ( raku ) for longevity ' in " jurakudai gyoko-ki " ( the diary of visit to jurakudai ) written by hideyoshi 's aide , yuko omura , one of " tensho-ki " ( the diary of tensho ) .
since no other sources have been found so far , historians generally believe that the term " juraku " was created by hideyoshi .
jurakudai of today
there is no recognizable structure of jurakudai remaining today , except that the landscape bears its mark .
in matsuyamachi-dori , shimo-chojamachi-dori , agaru , higashi iru , higashihori-cho , there is a historic site supposedly of " tsuyu-no-i , " but there is no evidence to show that it is a remnant of jurakudai .
in addition , there remains a garden stone supposedly contributed by kiyomasa kato in bundo-cho , to the north of kyoto city , demizu , day service center in chiekoin-dori , demizu-dori , sagaru , but there is also no evidence to show that it is a remnant of jurakudai .
meanwhile , names of towns such as suhama-cho , suhamaike-cho , tenbinmaru-cho , yamazato-cho , kitanogomon-cho , kodaiin-cho , and higashihori-cho markedly preserve vestiges of those days .
also , there are many towns named after warlords who served under hideyoshi , such as nyosui-cho , kodera-cho , ukita-cho , hidadono-cho , tamura-bizen-cho , fukushima-cho , chusho-cho , and naoie-cho .
there is a monument to jurakudai to the north of seishin elementary school in jofukuji-dori , nakadachiuri-dori .
note that in recent investigation , remains of a moat and tiles with gold leaf have been found .
" nijo shin-yashiki " ( hideyoshi 's before jurakudai ) of hideyoshi hashiba ( toyotomi ) of nijo-jo castle ,
a list of castles in japan
