College
Outline
Kyoto Institute of Technology (KIT) has only one school, that is, School of Science and Technology, so it's not that big in scale, but its education and research are unique in pursuing "practical science" based on creating products, ranging widely from the cutting-edge science and technology, such as biotechnology, material, information, and environment, to formative arts and design.
And, having the departments related to art, KIT tries "the fusion of science and art" through its organic education curriculum, attempting to become an international, sensibility-rich institute.
History
In 1899, Kyoto College of Textile Fibers was founded.
In 1902, Kyoto College of Technology was founded.
In 1914, Kyoto Institute of Textile Fibers was founded.
In 1931, Kyoto Institute of Textile Fibers was renamed Kyoto Institute of Textile Thread.
In 1944, Kyoto College of Technology was renamed Kyoto Vocational College of Technology, and Kyoto Institute of Textile Thread was renamed Kyoto Vocational College of Textile.
In 1949, based on two vocational colleges above, KIT started as a college under the new system, and opened School of Engineering and Design, and School of Textile Science.
In 1951, Technical College of KIT was established within the premises.
In 1992, Technical College of KIT was closed.
In 2004, KIT was transformed into the national university corporation by the National University Corporation Law.
In 2006, School of Engineering and Design, and School of Textile Science were united into School of Science and Technology.
School of Science and Technology
Academic Field of Materials and Life Science
Applied Biology
Biomolecular Engineering
Macromolecular Science and Engineering
Chemistry and Materials Technology
Academic Field of Engineering Design
Electronics
Information Science
Mechanical and System Engineering
Design Engineering and Management
Academic Field of Design Science
Architecture and Design
Integrated Science and Technology (lectured mainly in the evening)
School of Engineering and Design
Department of Electronics and Information Science
Department of Chemistry and Materials Technology
Department of Mechanical and System Engineering
Department of Architecture and Design
School of Textile Science
Department of Applied Biology
Department of Polymer Science and Engineering
Department of Design Engineering and Management
Graduate School of Science and Technology
Master's Programs
Mechanical and System Engineering
Electronics and Information Science=>Electronics =>Information Science
Chemistry and Materials Technology
Architecture and Design
Design
Architectural Design
Applied Biology
Biomolecular Engineering
Macromolecular Science and Engineering
Design Engineering and Management
Doctor's Programs
Materials and Life Science
Engineering Design
Design Science
Master's Program and Doctor's Program
Advanced Fibro-Science
Education and research
Programs adopted
Support Program for Good Practice as Unique University Education
Education Program for Nurturing New Sense of Engineering-Based on Artistic Expressions' Practice and Human Science's Knowledge
Support Program for Good Practice as Tackling Contemporary Educational Needs
Training of Human Resources and Revitalizing Community through Kyoto Brands-Developing Education Programs and Enlightening the General Public over Regional Kyoto Brands in Cooperation with Industry, University and the Local Government-
Training of Creative, International Specialists in Engineering & Design-From Tradition to Innovation, from Kyoto to the World-
Number of students
4,393 in total
3,317 Undergraduate School students (including 759 females)
1,076 Graduate School students (including 382 females)
"Joint Projects between Students and Teachers" are KIT-sponsored activities in which its students and teachers team up for taking part in events or contests related to manufacturing held outside of KIT.
The activities started in 2006.
ROBOCON TRIAL PROJECT()
In April, 2006, Associate Professor Yuichi SAWADA proposed the project, and it started as a cooperative one between students and teachers.
In June, 2006, they took part in College Category of NHK Robot Contest 2007 in Tokyo.
In the preliminary, they won with a score of 1-0 against Chiba University's team, and then won with the same score against Kanagawa Institute of Technology's team, so they were qualified for the championship tournament at the seventh rank.
But in the championship tournament, they were defeated with a score of 30-0 against Kanazawa Institute of Technology's team, the champion 2007.
STUDENT FORMULA PROJECT()
In Autumn, 2005, "Grandelfino" was founded as a team for producing a student formula car by like-minded people in KIT, gathered by its car club members,
In Summer, 2007, Grandelfino took part in Student Formula SAE Competition of JAPAN.
And its car managed to run till the end of the Endurance Check Category of the Competition, in which 28 teams did the same.
It ranked the 52nd out of 61 teams.
The team's name Grandelfino is a coinage made of the words "Delfino", an Italian word for dolphin, and "Grand", meaning great or magnificent.
Note : For now, many KIT students don't know about the actual conditions of this project.
Matsugasaki Festival
It's held over three days from the third Friday until Sunday every November.
KIT is off not only on those three days but on the day before and after the festival for its preparation and cleanup.
People and organizations related to KIT
List of people related to KIT
Public figures related to KIT
Notes
KIT, Shinshu University, and Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, are praised as classic 3 textile colleges.
Kenichi FUKUI, the Nobel prize winner, has ever acted as the president of KIT.
In fiscal Heisei 19, KIT ranked the first of all national colleges at the number of successful candidates who took the test of the first-class registered architect.
(Including private ones, KIT ranked the 3rd.)
Myo (妙) and Ho (法), known as "Gozan no Okuribi", can be seen nearby from the campus.
